Refresh Intelligent Timing content (#4127)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/intelligence/intelligent_timing.md

1. Add a step to your Canvas.
2. Open the **Delay** for your step.
3. Select **Scheduled**.
4. Set a delay using *after*, *in*, or *on the next*.
   - If you select *after*, set the delay in days or weeks. Delays are automatically calculated using calendar days, which means the message sends on the last day of the delay at the user's optimal time. Intelligent Timing is not available for delays shorter than 1 day.
5. Select **Using Intelligent Timing**.
6. Specify a [fallback time](#fallback-time).

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Fallback time {#fallback-time}

You need to choose a fallback time for the message to send to users in your audience who don't have enough engagement data for Braze to calculate an optimal send time. There are two options:

- the most popular time to use the app amongst all users
- a specific custom fallback time (in the user's local time zone)

#### Most popular app time

The most popular app time is determined by the average session start time for your app group (in local time). This time is displayed in red on the [preview chart](#preview-delivery-times) (campaigns only).

> For campaigns, if you specified a delivery window and the most popular app to use your app falls outside of that window, the message will send closest to the edge of the delivery window. For example, if your delivery window is 1 pm to 8 pm and a user’s optimal time is 10 pm, the message will send at 8 pm.

Author: ```suggestion
For campaigns, if you specified a [delivery window](#sending-within-specific-hours) and the most popular time to use your app falls outside of that window, the message will send closest to the edge of the delivery window. For example, if your delivery window is 1 pm to 8 pm and the most popular app time is 10 pm, the message will send at 8 pm.
```

## Troubleshooting

### Preview chart showing few users with optimal times

Braze needs a certain amount of engagement data to make a good estimate. If there isn’t enough session data or the targeted users have little to no clicks or opens (such as new users), Braze will default to the fallback time. Depending on your configuration, this could be either the most popular app time or a custom fallback time.

### Sending past the scheduled date

Your Intelligent Timing campaign might be sending past the scheduled date if you are leveraging [A/B testing with an optimization]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/testing/multivariant_testing/create_multivariate_campaign/#optimizations). Campaigns using A/B testing optimizations can automatically send the winning variant after the initial test is over, increasing the duration of the campaign. By default, campaigns with an optimization will send the winning variant to the remaining users the day after the initial test, but you can change this send date.

> We recommend that if you are using Intelligent Timing, leave more time for the A/B test to finish and schedule the winning variant to send for 2 days after the initial test instead of 1 day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Intelligent Timing, we recommend leaving more time for the A/B test to finish and scheduling the winning variant to send for 2 days after the initial test instead of 1 day.
```

1. Create a campaign and compose your message.
2. Select **Scheduled Delivery** as your delivery type.
3. Under **Time-Based Scheduling Options**, select **Intelligent Timing**.
4. Specify if this campaign should send once, or if it should repeat.
5. Select the send date. See [campaign nuances](#campaign-nuances) for considerations.
6. Determine if you want to [only send messages within specific hours](#sending-within-specific-hours).
7. Specify a [fallback time](#fallback-time). This is when the message will send if a user's profile doesn't have enough data to calculate an optimal time.

![Scheduling a campaign with Intelligent Timing][1]

#### Sending messages within specific hours {#sending-within-specific-hours}

If desired, you can choose to limit the optimal time to within a specific window of time. This is useful if your campaign pertains to a specific event, sale, or promotion.

1. When configuring Intelligent Timing, select **Only send messages within specific hours**.
2. Enter the start and end time of the send window.

![Checkbox for "Only send messages within specific hours" selected, where the time window is set to between 8 am and 12 am in the user's local time.][4]

> If a user’s optimal time is calculated as being outside this window, the message will send at the edge of the window closest to the user's optimal time. For example, if a user’s optimal time is 10 pm, but the send window is limited to 1 pm–8 pm, the message will send at 8 pm.

Reviewer 2: This is a little inaccurate. We attempt to determine an optimal time within the quiet time for a user (with a buffer of 1 hour around the quiet time boarders. If there is insufficient data to determine an optimal time within the quiet time hours we revert to using the default time. The above only occurs if the we still get an optimal tine in quiet time because of the buffers.

Author: Gotcha. I think. Does this make sense for a revision? I assumed you meant the 5 pm default but lmk if this means fallback time 🤔 

> If a user’s optimal time is calculated as being outside this window, the message attempts to send at the edge of the window closest to the user's optimal time, or up to 1 hour before or after the window. This depends on how much data we have on a user. If there isn't enough engagement data to determine an optimal time within this window, we default to 5 pm in the user's local time.
>
> For example, if a user’s optimal time is 10 pm, but the send window is limited to 1 pm–8 pm, there are two possible scenarios:
> - **Enough engagement data:** The message sends at the optimal time within the buffered send window, between 12 pm and 9 pm.
> - **Not enough engagement data:** The message sends at 5 pm in the user's local time. If the user's local time isn't known, it sends at 5 pm in your company's time zone.

Reviewer 2: Yes that looks right to me.

Reviewer 3: >  This depends on how much data we have on a user. If there isn't enough engagement data to determine an optimal time within this window, we default to 5 pm in the user's local time.
The fallback time is used if one is set. Default 5 pm is only used if there is no set fallback time.

Reviewer 2: Just to clarify (thanks @borisrev) 
>Not enough engagement data: The message sends at 5 pm in the user's local time. If the user's local time isn't known, it sends at 5 pm in your company's time zone.

Here we will attempt to use the fallback time before the default time.

Reviewer 3: I think the question of inside / outside quiet time is separable entirely from enough / not enough data.

First we try to do the optimal time inside the allowable hours-- if it's outside them, the border thing applies.

If there's not enough data in any scenario (quite hours or not), we use the fallback time, or the default 5pm time if a fallback time is not specified

Author: Clarified in DMs, resolving this convo

#### Preview delivery times

To see an estimate of how many users will receive the message in each hour of the day, use the preview chart (campaigns only).

1. Add segments or filters in the Target Audiences step.
2. In the section **Preview Delivery Times for** (which appears in both the Target Audiences and Schedule Delivery steps), select your channel.
3. Click **Refresh Data**.

![][2]

Whenever you change any settings about Intelligent Timing or your campaign audience, refresh the data again to view an updated chart.

The chart shows users who had enough data to calculate an optimal time in blue and users who will use the fallback time in red. Use the calculation filters to adjust the preview view for a more granular look at either user group.

#### Campaign nuances

Here are some nuances you should be aware of when scheduling campaigns with Intelligent Timing.

##### Scheduling the campaign

Schedule your campaign for at least 24 hours before the send date. Messages are sent within 24 hours of the send date, so this ensures that a user’s optimal time hasn’t passed when the campaign is launched.

##### Launching the campaign

> Launch your campaign at least 48 hours before the send date. This is because of variations in time zones. Braze calculates the optimal time at midnight in Samoan time (UTC-11), the first time zone in the world. A single day spans about 48 hours across the globe, which means that if you launch a campaign within that 48 hour buffer, it’s possible that a user’s optimal time has already passed in their time zone, and the message won’t send.

Author: @borisrev the difference between these two (scheduling and launching) isn't totally clear to me. Not sure if it's just me though 😆 

Is the "scheduling" one essentially saying that whatever the actual date you want the campaign to send is, you should schedule it to send the day before as kinda a buffer?

Reviewer 3: I think Launching the campaign 48 hours before subsumes scheduling 24 hours in advance. though it's a bit unclear even to me. @mmwillet ?

Reviewer 2: > Braze calculates the optimal time at midnight in Samoan time (UTC-11), the first time zone in the world.

This is inaccurate. UTC-11 is American Samoan time. Samoan time is UTC+13/UTC +14 and is the first timezone.

> Is the "scheduling" one essentially saying that whatever the actual date you want the campaign to send is, you should schedule it to send the day before as kinda a buffer?

The "scheduled" time I'd image is the date that you set the campaign to send on while "launching" occurs as soon as you enable the campaign (or save it in a non-draft form). If they schedule it for the 11/11 we want them to have launched the campaign at least 24 hours in advance of that.
Imagine that it is 4 pm EST 11/20 and a client attempts to launch a campaign out that is scheduled to send to their users at an optimal time between 4pm and 12AM on 11/20 (the current day in EST). If the client has users in Samoan time (UTC+13), those users cannot be eligible for the message, because it is already 9AM 11/21 (the next day) for those users. 
In order to express this we typically tell clients to make sure their campaigns are launched at least 48 hours in advance of the scheduled campaign send time.

Author: Oop good catch on the time zone, ty kindly 🖖 

Ahh okay so for the scheduled vs launched thing, we're essentially saying the same thing twice, and being a bit confusing about it. Can I safely remove the **Scheduling the campaign** section entirely, and just tell them 48 hours across the board? I think that would be clearer and reduce the chance of any issues occurring if they see the 24 hour recommendation and just go with that.

Reviewer 2: >Can I safely remove the Scheduling the campaign section entirely, and just tell them 48 hours across the board? 
I am fine with that, but I want to make sure that when we say "scheduling 48 hours in advance" we mean "setting up a campaign that is scheduled for X day 48 hours in advance of X day".

Author: Right—they would set up and launch the campaign 48 hours before the send date. For example, if the send date is March 3, launch the campaign no later than March 1.

> Launch your campaign at least 48 hours before the send date. This is because of variations in time zones. Braze calculates the optimal time at midnight in Samoan time (UTC-11), the first time zone in the world. A single day spans about 48 hours across the globe, which means that if you launch a campaign within that 48 hour buffer, it’s possible that a user’s optimal time has already passed in their time zone, and the message won’t send.

Author: ```suggestion
Launch your campaign at least 48 hours before the send date. This is because of variations in time zones. Braze calculates the optimal time at midnight in Samoan time (UTC+13), the first time zone in the world. A single day spans about 48 hours across the globe, which means that if you launch a campaign within that 48-hour buffer, it’s possible that a user’s optimal time has already passed in their time zone, and the message won’t send.
```

Learn more about [when Braze checks the eligibility criteria for segments and filters]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/intelligence/faqs/#when-does-braze-check-the-eligibility-criteria-for-segment-and-audience-filters).

##### A/B tests with optimizations

If you are leveraging [A/B testing with an optimization]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/testing/multivariant_testing/create_multivariate_campaign/#optimizations), such as automatically sending the winning variant after the A/B test is over, the duration of the campaign will increase. By default, Intelligent Timing campaigns will send the winning variant to the remaining users the day after the initial test, but you can change this send date.

We recommend that if you’re using both Intelligent Timing and A/B testing, schedule the winning variant to send 2 days after the initial test instead of 1 day.

![A/B Testing section of the Target Audiences step where the test ends and sends the Winning Variant two days after the initial test starts.][5]

### Canvas

This section describes how to use Intelligent Timing in your Canvases. The steps vary slightly depending on which Canvas workflow you're using.

{% tabs %}

> {% tab Canavs Flow %}

Author: ```suggestion
{% tab Canvas Flow %}
```

1. Add a step to your Canvas.
2. Open the **Delay** for your step.
3. Select **Scheduled**.
4. Set a delay using *after*, *in*, or *on the next*.
   - If you select *after*, set the delay in days or weeks. Delays are automatically calculated using calendar days, which means the message sends on the last day of the delay at the user's optimal time. Intelligent Timing is not available for delays shorter than 1 day.
5. Select **Using Intelligent Timing**.
6. Specify a [fallback time](#fallback-time).

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Fallback time {#fallback-time}

You need to choose a fallback time for the message to send to users in your audience who don't have enough engagement data for Braze to calculate an optimal send time. There are two options:

- the most popular time to use the app amongst all users
- a specific custom fallback time (in the user's local time zone)

#### Most popular app time

The most popular app time is determined by the average session start time for your app group (in local time). This time is displayed in red on the [preview chart](#preview-delivery-times) (campaigns only).

> For campaigns, if you specified a delivery window and the most popular app to use your app falls outside of that window, the message will send closest to the edge of the delivery window. For example, if your delivery window is 1 pm to 8 pm and a user’s optimal time is 10 pm, the message will send at 8 pm.

Author: @mmwillet i'm guessing this also isn't accurate then? Same behavior as above?

Reviewer 2: yes

- Intelligent Timing should not be used in the following scenarios:
    - **Quiet hours:** Using both quiet hours and Intelligent Timing is counterproductive, as quiet hours are based on a top-down assumption about user behavior, such as not messaging someone in the middle of the night, whereas Intelligent Timing is based on user activity. Maybe Sam checks her app notifications at 3 am a lot. We don't judge.
    - **Rate limiting:** If both rate limiting and Intelligent Timing are used, there is no guarantee about when the message will be delivered.
    - **IP warming campaigns:** Some Intelligent Timing behaviors can cause difficulties in hitting daily volumes that are needed when you are first warming up your IP. This is because Intelligent Timing evaluates segments twice—once when the campaign or Canvas is first created, and again before sending to users to verify that they should still be in that segment. This can cause segments to shift and change, often leading to some users falling out of the segment on the second evaluation. These users don’t get replaced, impacting how close to the maximum user cap you can achieve.

> ## Troubleshooting

Author: Any other common issues to add troubleshooting for? These are both campaign-specific, anything for Canvas?

> ### Showing little to no sends

Author: ```suggestion
### Preview chart showing few users with optimal times
```

> Braze needs a certain amount of engagement data to make a good estimate. If there isn’t enough session data or the targeted users have little to no clicks or opens (such as new users), Braze will default to the fallback time. Depending on your configuration, this could be either the most popular app time or a custom fallback time.

Author: @borisrev Pulled this from the Intelligence FAQ. I don't really see how this is answering the question?

I would anticipate this being because of messages that were aborted, right? i.e., if a campaign is launched and a user's optimal time is >1 hour in the past, it won't send at all. Am I missing something?

Reviewer 3: I think this is referring to showing data in the preview. Maybe what's meant is "The Preview shows very few users with optimal times"

Author: Oh, okay huh. Updating the heading accordingly 👍
